---
title: "Git : Everything you have to know"
date: 2022-05-29 08:40:00 +0800
categories: [Tutorial]
tags: [git, github]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
layout: post
toc: true
---

## Git environnment

### What is git?

Git is a program.\
You can use it if you want to save files on a remote server, similar to google drive and the cloud.\
The reasons why git is loved by programmers are :
- Because it keeps a version of old files.\
If a crash suddenly occurs in your code, you can just go back to a previous version, when it worked.
- Because you can merge files.\
if multiple programmers work on the same file, they can fuse their changes easily instead of keeping only one version. 

No matter the remote server or the git interface used, the commands will be the same, because they all use git.

### What is Github?

Github is a remote server, where you can store your files using git.
It provides free storage and some useful tools, like:
- Github Action, which can be used to automatically run tests on different os
- Github Pages, that provides a free internet website

There are other providers, like:
- Gitlab
- Bitbucket

### What is a Git Interface?
By default, you have to use command lines to use git.
However, there is something called "git interfaces". 
They provide an easy to use visual interface to use git instead of raw commands.
Examples of git interfaces:
- Github Desktop 
- Sourcetree
- Gitkraken

Remote servers do not require a specific git interface.\
You can use Github Desktop with Gitlab, and SourceTree with Github.

## Clone a repository

### What is a repository?

### Using an account

### Using ssh keys

## Git commands

### Basics

git add
git commit -m ""
git push
git status

### Retrieve files

git log : see the history of commits
git checkout : go to previous commits
git checkout : retrieve a file from a specific commit

### Work in a teaam 

git pull

git branch 
git checkout -b

git merge
